Crypto Assets and the Federal Securities Laws

What is a crypto asset?
The SEC provided interpretive guidance in 2026 on crypto assets under the federal securities laws. In the context of that
guidance, crypto assets and systems generally include:

               Crypto Assets                                            Crypto Network                                           Crypto Application




      Digital representation of value                            Blockchain or similar distributed                             Software application running
     recorded on a cryptographically-                               ledger technology network                                      on a crypto network
        secured distributed ledger


                                                                                                       Crypto Systems

What crypto assets are not securities?

                                 Digital Commodity
                                 A digital commodity is necessary to participate in or use certain aspects of an associated
                                 functional crypto system. Digital commodities derive their value from the programmatic
                                 operation of that system, as well as supply and demand dynamics.
                                 Examples include Aptos (APT); Avalanche (AVAX); Bitcoin (BTC); Bitcoin Cash (BCH);
                                 Cardano (ADA); Chainlink (LINK); Dogecoin (DOGE); Ether (ETH); Hedera (HBAR);
                                 Litecoin (LTC); Polkadot (DOT); Shiba Inu (SHIB); Solana (SOL); Stellar (XLM);
                                 Tezos (XTZ); and XRP (XRP).




                                 Digital Collectible
                                 A digital collectible is designed to be collected and/or used and may represent or convey
                                 rights to artwork, music, videos, trading cards, in-game items, or digital representations or
                                 references to internet memes, characters, current events, or trends, among other things.
                                 Examples include CryptoPunks, Chromie Squiggles, Fan Tokens, WIF, and VCOIN.
                                 If a digital collectible is fractionalized or enables individuals to acquire a fractional
                                 ownership interest, it may be a security.


                                                                                                                                                 continued on back page



 This resource represents the views of the staff of the Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation. It is not a rule, regulation, or statement of the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“Commission”). The Commission has neither approved nor disapproved its content. This resource, like all staff statements, has no legal force or
 effect: it does not alter or amend applicable law, and it creates no new or additional obligations for any person. Paid for by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 Crypto Assets and the Federal Securities Laws (continued)

 What crypto assets are not securities? (continued)

                      Digital Tool
                      A digital tool performs a practical function, such as a membership, ticket, credential, title instru-
                      ment, or identity badge. Digital tools are commonly issued for use in connection with crypto
                      systems and are designed to perform practical functions within those systems. Digital tools
                      often are non-transferable.
                      Examples include Ethereum Name Service domain names and CoinDesk’s ‘Microcosms’
                      NFT Consensus Ticket.




                      Stablecoin
                      A stablecoin is designed to maintain a stable value relative to a reference asset like
                      the U.S. dollar.
                      A payment stablecoin is used as a means of payment or settlement and, subject to the
                      terms of the GENIUS Act, is generally not a security.
                      Other stablecoins may be securities depending on their features.




 What crypto assets are securities?

                      Digital Security
                      A digital security (also known as a “tokenized” security) is a financial instrument that meets
                      the definition of “security” and is formatted as or represented by a crypto asset. The record
                      of ownership of digital securities is maintained on or through one or more crypto networks.
                      There are a variety of models used to tokenize securities and they may vary in structure and
                      rights to holders. The rights of a holder of the crypto asset may be materially different from
                      the rights of a holder of the underlying security, including economic and voting rights.


 Have suggestions on additional educational resources? Email smallbusiness@sec.gov.




                                            www.sec.gov/oasb                       #SECSmallBiz
ENGAGE WITH US:
                                            smallbusiness@sec.gov                   202.551.5407
